Our problem

A ‘virtual’ wave is ascending across various cultures, digitalizing everything from large social groups like nations to the smallest interactions, affecting human relationships regardless of their depth and nature: our very human identity is altered and alienated. 
The ubiquitous possibility to connect to the internet at any time and any place, using the smartphone as an extension of our personality impacts all human behaviors and shape human interactions. Research on smartphones’ impact on our social relations sounds alarming bells, revealing dangers from physical and mental health risks, to great addiction and isolation. 
Although reverting this trend is unlikely, the development of solutions that counter or offset at least some of these issues should become a part of the public and private focus. 

The negative effects of smartphones on personal health

Recent research has expanded our understanding of the effects that regular smartphone usage has on personal health. The negative effects range from negative physical effects to mental health issues or problems with concentration.
Physical effects: Although smartphone-induced medical risks are still under study, the findings point to some alarming risks, such as increased risk of brain tumours and subsequent need for prevention and warning connected to smartphone usage. Other less clear effects are being studied but often challenged, such as damage to fertility and reproduction, negative impact on childhood development, inducing insomnia and others. Physiotherapists also revealed the damaging effects of prolonged phone use on posture and subsequent pains restlessness and muscle spasms.
Addiction: A new term for addiction to mobile devices is in circulation, calling the issue “Nomophobia” (no-mobile-phone-phobia). People reportedly and on average (especially in teens and young adults) check their phones regularly around every 15 minutes during the day. First rehab facilities are being founded to address nomophobia as an issue, including as a cause of anxiety (related to the use of social media).
Lack of concentration and focus & lifestyle changes: Beyond direct health effects, the constant checking of phones was seen to decrease focus and concentration.  Furthermore, constant internet connection and ever-present social network at the tip of your fingers have resulted in lifestyle changes, especially in the way people spend their free time, often dedicating hours of the day on actions done through and on their telephone device. 
But our main concern goes beyond the threats to the personal wellbeing by virtuality, to its shocking negative influence into how we, as human, social beings, approach relationships, strangers and society in general  (including our place in that society).

Smartphones & interpersonal communication in non-virtual situations

Have you ever wondered about how smartphones and our reliance on them changed the way we relate to the community and society as a whole? 
A study was recently made to decide in an experiment, if the presence and the possibility to use a smartphone to entertain yourself during waiting times, reduces the smallest interpersonal interaction – a smile. 
The study has hound that not only does the condition of phone presence in a waiting room reduce smiles between strangers that catch each other’s glance over the room but they also found that presence of phones on the individuals reduced approach behaviours between strangers, such as starting a conversation or even just saying “hello”.  This means that not only we close ourselves to a virtual social bubble, filled with our close ones but we are also, mostly unwillingly, giving up on the people around us. Such behaviours may foster feelings of isolation and apathy towards the society that surround us. 

Smartphones on public transportation

Bearing in mind the insight on the negative effects of smartphone on social situations, we decided to focus on a specific situation in which people tend to use their phones while they are surrounded by other members of society. 
This is during the regular commute or another type of transport when they use public transport (such as metro, train, bus lines or trams) that many people take in cities. Regular commuters create a community of their own sort. They can be an identified group of (mostly) strangers, who has similar needs. Those may sit or stand (ideally comfortably) and get to their destination as fast as possible, while mindlessly looking around, reading, or, as we want to stress, scrolling or playing on their phones.
Research shows that 65% of commuters or passengers use their phone while they are on public transportation. This makes a regular commute or a transport in a city quite similar to the waiting room used in the smile experiment above. 
A simple bus ride can therefore become a source of isolation and apathy towards society rather than acknowledgement of the existence of the people around you. It is not necessary that an individual seeks proactive engagement with fellow commuters. With smartphones in the picture however, a simple bus ride can become yet another additional factor to the already individualistic, isolating, and anonymous web of negative effects of urbanism. 
While it is unlikely that people will stop using smartphones on transport as a way to kill time until their destination is reached, we ask a question of how can people use their smartphones and be aware of the opportunities to socialise around them.

Our Problem: 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How can we make commuters being on their phone interact with each other to potentially obtain a simple HUMAN CONNECTION - like an exchange of smile or laughter- ensuring at the same time their safety and encouraging them to overcome their lack of trust? 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Our solution: Komorebi 

We want to challenge virtuality using, paradoxically, the same weapons, in the form of a digital application named Komorebi, design for the use of commuters, during travel and waiting time. However, despite its virtual nature, we aim to change the paradigm, by using the application as an enabler of social connection and not the channel of communication, as a means and not as an end.
Various applications encourage their users to get out of their comfort zone and meet other people, but by providing them the certainty of ‘always available if needed’, the users apparently tend to be satisfied with just the online experience. The existent applications are also very much ambitions in their intentions: finding your soulmate, sharing a party together with strangers, getting involved in similar activities with people one does not know. In this sense, the existing proximity application all demand a lot of emotional efforts that most of the commuters do not want to go through. 
Mission & Name
Komorebi mission is revealed from the onset by its very Japanese name, which describes the momentarily sight of sun rays coming down through the tree branches: its beauty relies in the simplicity and ease of use, as well in the personal, originar feeling of warmth that we associated with honest human interaction. As an application, Komorebi aims to provide a small portion of excitement especially for the morning and evening commuters, an opportunity to exchange smiles among strangers living or working in similar areas. 
Functionalities & Target group
Komorebi is a minimal application, encouraging real-life social networking through small, short phone games. The application pairs the participants of the game based on geolocation, so that people taking the same bus/metro/ waiting station get involved in a gaming experience with an unknown, anonymous user. We bet on human curiosity that our users will be intrigued about the other person and will look around for their competitors: that is when the opportunity of smile exchange arises, when the two sights meet and two humans are momentarily connected. At the end of the game, the participants can also exchange inédit recommendations - music, books or restaurants- and receive their rewards in the form of points. This is the augmented product. 
Process: 
